[Music]
it's just not your day you're late for a
date and how wonderful you got lost and
your phone has kicked the bucket so you
can't call text or anything of course
you didn't bring your charger oh if only
phones had removable batteries and you
could simply change it on the go well
let's get that clear there are phones
with removable batteries on the market
you just don't see them as much they're
less popular and a little outdated more
common our gadgets with batteries that
are glued or screwed into the inside of
the phone you can take it out only with
special tools and lots of courage and
you'll most likely end up with a broken
phone after that there are a few reasons
why phones with removable batteries have
lost their touch first it's because of a
tighter and slimmer design non-removable
batteries don't need a back panel which
means they take up less space inside the
gadget and since people now want phones
made from high-quality materials and
with tons of features manufacturers
decided to give them exactly that by
making smartphones thinner taking the
bulk down let them use fewer of those
pricey materials which translates to a
lower cost for customers
plus the smart phone simply look more
stylish and modern giving up removable
batteries also made it possible to have
waterproof phones too bad this was long
after that one time mine fell out of my
backpack and right into the toilet but I
digress wait the fewer places exist to
potentially let water in
the easier it is to keep it out and
since water damage isn't covered under
most warranties this feature has become
very popular among customers yeah me
included besides non removable batteries
are better for your security let's say
someone stole your phone with the
battery tucked inside and difficult to
get to
without that removable back panel it
makes it harder for a thief to disable
tracking features so your chances of
finding your property are much higher
but of course this new non removable
battery isn't only for your convenience
the lifespan of an
smartphone battery is about 24 months
after that it starts losing its capacity
and you have to charge the phone more
often which is annoying to say the least
it's around this time when thoughts pop
in your head like hmm maybe it's time to
get me a new phone oh how convenient
your service provider will be happy to
sell you one but why not save your cash
and try these tips to make your battery
life lasts longer number one check
location tracking for all your apps some
apps need to know your location to
function correctly like Maps or
ride-sharing apps as for social media
ones not so much with location turned
off your battery won't have to work
overtime tracking where you are all the
time besides it can solve privacy issues
do you really want everybody with
internet access to know that you're off
on vaycay and your home is now empty if
you have an iPhone go to settings
privacy location services on an Android
it'll be settings and then security and
location there you can see what apps
track you and turn off those that
shouldn't to ditch live wallpaper and
other visual effects what kind of
wallpaper do you have on your phone
right now let me know in the comments if
it's a bright flashy animated one then I
imagine your battery doesn't last very
long
change it to a simple background image
also don't forget to delete all widgets
that update automatically to remove
different visual effects on an iPhone go
to Settings General accessibility reduce
motion on Android head to settings
developer options and scroll down to the
window and transition animation scales
and the animator duration scale to turn
them off 3 turn off automatic app
updates that way there will be less
activity happening in the background and
less battery power wasted on
non-essential actions
iPhone owners should go to settings
iTunes and App Store and then find
automatic downloads and turn off the
toggle next to it Android users can open
the Google Play
store and find the menu icon in the top
left corner after tapping on it push
settings general auto update apps and
turn it off you can always update your
apps manually for check battery usage
sometimes just one power hogging app
might be the problem looking through
your smartphone's battery usage can help
you pinpoint which app it is on iPhones
hit settings battery and you'll see
who's eating up your power Android users
head to settings battery battery usage
and get rid of the apps that don't let
you get enough life out of your smart
battery or you know maybe cut down on
the usage a little number 5 tone down
the screen brightness whenever your
phone is lit up precious battery power
is slipping away from you you can lower
the display brightness from the quick
settings menu however on most phones the
brightness is adjusted automatically
depending on the current lighting it
means you'll have to lower it manually
every time you use your phone it's not
exactly the most convenient but it'll
help you get extra screen time 6 don't
drain or charge the battery completely
don't wait to charge your phone when it
turns off and unplug it before it
reaches 100% both these extremes drain
the battery try to keep it between 40%
and 80% 7 turn off Bluetooth and Wi-Fi
when you don't need it
your phone will keep looking for a new
connection as long as Bluetooth or Wi-Fi
are enabled but the gadget isn't
connected to anything make it a habit to
disable these features every time you
leave home to save the battery most
phones will let you control Wi-Fi and
Bluetooth from the quick settings menu 8
shut off unnecessary push notifications
your phone wakes up for each
notification and lights up the screen to
show you a message and give you a chance
to reply as you know by now a lit screen
means a depleting battery to disable
these alerts on an iPhone go to settings
notifications allow notifications
and toggle it off on Android you can do
this either in an app settings menu or
by long-pressing the notification itself
and select the I icon this will take you
to the app settings where you can block
push notifications 9 avoid temperature
extremes your phone doesn't like extreme
temperatures yeah can't we all relate if
it's too cold or too hot it can strain
the battery and shorten its lifespan
leaving your phone in a car is probably
the most common scenario when a gadget
gets exposed to freezing or scorching
temperatures so don't leave your little
Electric friend alone in there for the
same reason
never leave your phone under the pillow
overnight especially if it's charging 10
reduce the screen time out if your phone
is on but you're not using it the screen
will automatically turn off after some
time usually one to two minutes that's
more than likely a lot longer than you
need so why not reduce it Apple users
can go to settings display and
brightness scroll down to find auto lock
and tap it now you can choose the
desired time from the options Android
lets you do it by tapping on display
from the settings menu now scroll down
to hit screen timeout 11 avoid using
your phone while it's charging reading
watching videos or gaming on your phone
when it's plugged in can distort the
batteries charging cycles it's best to
turn it off if it's getting some new
juice or at least keep it idle most of
the time number 12 use airplane mode not
only on planes when your phone is in
airplane mode it stops receiving and
sending radio signals which will halt
emails messages cause Wi-Fi and
Bluetooth connections this may sound
crazy to those who like being connected
all the time like most of us but it's a
great help in conserving your battery as
you know this mode switches off a lot of
features but you can always manually
turn on the ones you need the most
without leaving airplane
mode so keep a smart battery to go with
your smartphone and like call me maybe
hey if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
cool videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life
[Music]